Have you ever heard of containers? Of course, you have.
Over the last few years,
the concept of containers has risen to prominence,
and most companies are looking at how they can leverage
container technology to accelerate software development,
improve operational stability, and save time and money.
The most popular container software as of today is Docker,
a platform that allows you to build, test,
and deploy applications quickly by packaging software into units called containers.
A container includes an application, its configuration,
runtime, libraries, tools, and its dependencies.
Containers are portable and because of how the resources are packaged,
their performance is consistent across platforms.
If you need to run a lot of Docker containers,
you need an orchestration or management tool.
Orchestration tools make it possible to start,
stop, and monitor thousands or millions of containers.
Amazon offers three categories of container management tools.
Amazon Elastic Container Registry or ECR,
a container registry that simplifies the storage and management of container images.
Amazon Elastic Container Service or ECS,
and Elastic Kubernetes Service or EKS are fully
managed services that provide the most secure, reliable,
and scalable way to run containerized applications with
EKS providing the managed service for containerized applications using Kubernetes.
AWS has two compute options for containers.
Fargate is a serverless compute platform for containers,
and of course, EC2,
a scalable compute running on virtual instances,
offering full control of container configuration and scalability if necessary.
We're going to focus on fargate.
Another one on AWS's serverless compute engines.
Fargate works with both ECS and EKS by managing their underlying infrastructure.
Fargate manages provisioning and allocating the amount of
compute that container services require for their applications,
while also providing the built-in security inherent in
the managed workload isolations container services provide.
Running container services in a serverless environment again,
shifts the work of resource management to AWS,
providing you with an expert partner in the management of your resources,
keeping your applications up and running on
the right amount of compute at the right scale,
and keeping your container compute costs as low as possible.